I'm CLA Richardson thank you so much for
joining us we begin with breaking news
Israel says it has dismissed two
officers and reprimanded three others
for Monday's air strikes in Gaza that
killed seven Aid workers Israel's
military admitted a series of grave
mistakes saying the soldiers mishandled
critical information and violated the
Army's Rules of
Engagement we can get the very latest on
this from DW's correspondent Tanya
Kramer joining me now from Jerusalem
Tanya what more we know about the
results of this
investigation well this report was just
uh released by the military and they're
basically saying that the forces uh they
were riding there identified a uh Hamas
gunman on one of the trucks where the uh
World Central Kitchen uh Aid workers
were at the time they were then uh um
you know offloading uh the the aid from
there and then uh turning back from this
Warehouse in central Gaza now they say
according to this report that they
identified a gunman on an aid truck as
they say and then at a later stage
another gunman also at the warehouse and
uh they say uh the IDF the Israeli
military saying that they believe um
that the forces believe that these uh
two gunmen were in one of the three uh
vehicles and they're talking about a
misidentification they're talking about
misclassification uh of uh the uh event
and as you said two of the officers have
been uh uh dismissed and three uh were
reprimanded but a lot of the details are
not really uh yet known there will be a
lot of questions asked as this Convoy uh
was hit uh with according to reports
here at least three missiles there is
also talk about a complete uh breakdown
of the chain of command uh so we'll have
to see whether this is an an answer you
know for uh the World Central kit but
also of course for the relatives and the
eight workers community that is working
in Gaza and now this comes as
International pressure is mounting on
Israel to do more to protect civilians
in Gaza the United Nations top human
rights body has in fact just passed a
resolution calling for Israel to be held
accountable for possible war crimes in
the Palestinian territory the Human
Rights Council has also called for a
halt in armed sales to Israel 28
countries voted in favor uh six
including Germany the United States
voted against and 13 abstained from the
resolution it is the first time the UN
body has taken a position on the war in
Gaza so Tanya it really seems like
International pressure on Israel is
mounting by the
day well that's quite right this is
another another international
organization and another resolution that
has been adopted criticizing Israel's uh
conduct of War we got a first reaction
there from the Israeli Ambassador in
Geneva that was distributed here by the
foreign Ministry that said that the
decision today a stain on the Human
Rights Council and the United Nations uh
in uh General uh they've been saying
that Hamas is not mentioned and their
role on October 7th uh that also
reflects of course this very strained
relationship between the United Nations
and uh Israel as well uh but of course
it is just another uh International or
organization uh that is now uh
criticizing Israel again amidst this
really mounting as you said
International a pressure further pushing
uh Israel uh to change its conduct of
war and among them also uh its closest
allies in the United States that have
also you know criticized isra and asked
them to do more to protect civilians in
Gaza given the high death tall and to do
more uh to protect uh to bring in more
Aid and also of course in this case to
protect more Aid workers but we haven't
really seen this translating into any
significant changes uh for the
population for the civilian population
on the ground there in Gaza now in the
six months uh of this war on the subject
of Aid Israel has also now announced the
temporary opening of more Aid routs into
Gaza what more can you tell us about
that well yeah this is uh quite a
significant uh development because eight
organization ations and the United
Nations have called for weeks to open
another uh land uh Crossing to get eight
uh more directly into especially
Northern Gaza where the population is
really in a critical situation as the
United Nations have said on the brink of
famine and this decision came after what
was described here in the Israeli media
after a 10's phone call between uh the
US President Joe Biden and prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu saying that
they will uh open at least temporarily
uh the AIS Crossing that is a Crossing
in the north of Gaza it used to be more
a pedestrian Crossing also uh there were
some cars going through uh but again it
is still to see how the logistic of all
of this will be uh how many trucks will
go in there when this will happen and we
heard the uh US Secretary of State
Anthony blinkin also saying that the the
test will be uh you know uh the the
reality test with what will happen and
that they will watch it very close what
Israel will do in this regard Tanya
thank you as always for bringing us up
to speed that is Tanya Kramer in
Jerusalem